
**Connectors needs**: The needs of the connectors at this point in time are mostly self-contained, in the sense that there needs to be greater coordination within the connectors and the overall mapping of the field. Some are: a greater understanding of the actors in the field and how they can be supported. Additionally, we need to figure out some of the main funding schemes of DDS, some other institutions that might be willing to support the project; other ways to centralize and disseminate the information that we have, ‘spread the field’, 

**DDS needs**: Different DDS’s might have different needs, and mapping and understanding these different needs might be more of a case by case basis, although a few general needs and methods of support might be quickly outlined, based on the interviews that took place. Additionally, this might be the most important group to outline different needs. 

Support with integration into the community: how and through what channels can they get more involved and integrated into the communities that they are located in? Are there, for example, ways that different DDS programs might be introduced in some kind of community effort? 


Funding, of course, remains a general and blanket need for a number of different DDS’s. Thus, identifying funding sources which might be helpful could be of help to these different DDS’s. In some cases, the cost for entry remains an obstacle for certain participants, and for programs that wish to have a wide array of students, keeping the cost low and having the funds to do so remains an open challenge. 
  
Purpose for participants: As pointed out in some of the interviews, a number of young adults, naturally, are forced to meet the demands of everyday life, whether these are relationships, financial demands, or other life demands. Thus, it might seem like participating in a program is more of a ‘luxury’, opposed to something that might meaningfully develop their own being. As many of us are fully aware, we live in a world where many different life decisions are based on ‘practicality’ within our current framework, and thus, it might be meaningful to figure out how to navigate this challenge. Of course, what is more important than developing ones being? However, it can be difficult to realize and metabolize this understanding, if the ‘benefits’ are a developed being. Figuring out how to navigate this context remains an open ended question. 

**Participant needs**: The needs for the participants at this time might include their exposure to these different kinds of programs and spaces that they might take part in. This also might include some extra motivation for they might want to be involved in one of these places. As mentioned with DDS needs, there is a sense in which potential participants might need a purpose to join some of these programs: why, for example, might a young adult want to join one of these programs? It does not result in any financial or obvious career gain. The goal here is not necessarily to brand a DDS in a way that might be beneficial to one's career, although finding a purpose for people to join seems to be an important challenge. 

**Learner needs**: The needs for learners at this stage are simply ways to get them more involved with the information that we produce about DDS’s. Identifying this as a ‘need’ may not be all that accurate; but if they are to have a meaningful impact in the field, and spread information within the field, then providing learners with promotional material, posts, reports, seminars, or other material which might allow them to have a meaningful impact might be considered a need at this time.**